1. 1982 The Berenstain Bears IN THE Dark Stan and Jan Berenstain“Brother Bear,” said Sister impatiently, “are you going to take all day to pick your books?” Sister and Brother Bear at the Bear Country Library. Sister had already chosen her books and was waiting at the check-out desk. “Hold your horses,” said Brother. “I am looking for a good mystery.” Sister Bear usually took out storybooks and books about nature–and sometimes books of poems. Brother liked those, too, but lately he’d become interested in mysteries–especially spooky ones. “Hey, this one looks good,” he said finally. “Okay, let’s check out.” “Hmmm,” said Sister, looking at the cover. It was called The Case of the Crying Cave. “It looks scary to me!” “Say! This is really good!” said Brother later that evening when the Bear family had settled down for some reading. “Would you like me to read it to you?” he asked Sister. Sister was looking at a storybook about three kittens who were arguing about which was the prettiest–and it was a little boring. “Or are you scared?” teased Brother. “Of course not,” said Sister. She left her book on the floor and climbed onto the bench to sit beside him. The mystery began quietly. It told about some bear scouts who were on an overnight camp-out. When the scouts discovered a dark, secret cave, Brother’s mystery began to get a little exciting. And when the cave began to cry and wail, it was anything but quiet! “’Who-o-o-o-o! cried the deep, dark mysterious cave,’” read Brother with a lot of expression. “’ ’Who-o-o-o-o!’” “Stop!” said Sister, putting her fingers in her ears. “That’s enough!” And she went back to her storybook. “Scaredy bear! Scaredy bear!” teased Brother. “And that’s quite enough of that,” added Papa Bear, looking up from his paper. At the cubs’ bedtime Papa and Mama said good night, turned off the light, and left the cubs in the usual sleepy darkness. Outside the tree house the bright, busy sounds of day had given to the soft, soothing sounds of night–the quiet conversation of frogs and toads, the soft cry of the owl, the sigh of the night wind. And if you listened very hard, you could almost hear the softest sound of all–the sound of lightning bugs switching their lights on and off, on and off. But inside the tree house Sister Bear wasn’t even beginning to fall asleep. That night the dark didn’t seem the least bit quiet and sleepy. In fact, it seemed like the spooky darkness of a scary cave. And the friendly old chest of drawers and funny clothes tree that Papa had made didn’t seem so friendly and funny. They seemed more like cave creatures. So when brother decided to tease her a little more by making a wailing noise–a really sppoky wailing noise—it gave her quite a scare. “Mama! Papa!” she cried. “Hurry! Come quick!” And come quickly they did. Papa rushed into the dark room and tripped over the clothes three. Mama rushed in after Papa and tripped over him. In the commotion Sister fell out of bed and landed on both of them. Then Brother, who had started it all with his spooky wall, turned on the light. What a mess! Sister, still scared, was holding on to Papa. Papa was holding on to the toe he had stubbed. And Mama was looking for the night cap she had lost in the confusion. All three of them were pretty annoyed with Brother Bear. It turned out to be a very long night in the Bear’s tree house. Papa and Mama tried to explain that there was nothing to be afraid of in the dark (except maybe running into a clothes tree and stubbing your toe)–but it didn’t do any good. Sister absolutely refused to go to sleep with the light off. And Brother positively insisted that he couldn’t fall asleep with the light on. The next morning the Bear family was very sleepy-eyed.  “Boy,” said Brother, yawning. “I sure don’t want to go through another night like that!” “Neither do I,” said Papa. “And I think I have an idea that might help.” He took Sister’s hand. “Come with me,” he said. “Where are we going?” she wanted to know. “Up to the attic.” “The attic? But it’s dark in the attic–even in the daytime.” “I know,” said Papa. “But there’s something I want to show you. Anyway, there’s nothing so special about the dark. It’s just part of nature, like the light. It’s your imagination that makes the dark seem spooky sometimes.” “What’s imagination?” asked Sister. “Imagination is what makes us think that chests of drawers and clothes trees are cave creatures.” “I wish I didn’t have one,” said Sister. “Don’t say that,” said Papa. “A lively imagination is one of the best things a cub can have. It’s imagination that lets us paint pictures, make up poems, invent inventions! The trick is to take charge of your imagination–and not let it take charge of you.” When they got to the attic, Papa began to rummage through boxes, looking for something. Sister tried to follow Papa’s advice and not let her imagination take charge. And it worked–a spooky shape turned out to be the shadow of some old tools. What looked like a giant was really some piled-up furniture. “Here it is!” said Papa. “My old night light! The one I used when I was a cub and had a little trouble falling asleep in the dark!” Sister couldn’t quite believe that her big, powerful papa was ever afraid of the dark.  “Oh, sure,” said Papa. “Most of us are at one time or another.” “How about reading the rest of The Case of the Crying Cave?” Sister Bear asked Brother later that day. “Are you sure you want me to?” “Sure! I want to see how it turns out!” she insisted. When it turned out that there was nothing very spooky about the terrible wailing noise (it was caused by wind blowing across an opening in the roof of the case–like the noise you make when you blow across the top of a bottle), Sister was a little disappointed. And that night, when she and Brother were all settle down in the cozy glow of Papa’s old night light, she said so. “I was pretty disappointed by the way The Case of the Crying Cave ended.” “Why?” asked Brother. “Because,” she said, “I was hoping the wailing would be a really spooky, scary monster!” And she leaned down from her bunk over Brother’s and made a spooky, scary monster face at him. “Cut that out!” cried Brother. Then Sister went right to sleep. But Brother lay awake for quite some time listening to the owl hoots and thinking that maybe he’d had enough mysteries for a while. bear country library out, mysteries, cubs corner THE CASE OF THE CRYING CAVE WOOOOO BEAR COUNTRY GARDENS THE CASE OF THE CRYING THE CASE OF THE CRYING CAVE WOOOOO “A mysterious cave!” said the bear scouts. “We should explore it!” But before the scouts could go into the cave a wailing sound came from the cave. WHOO-O-O-O It was a strange sound and it frightened the scouts. “Help!” they cried. O-O-O-O-O WHO-O-O-O-O-O-O-O “The mystery is solved!” shouted Bear Scout Ted looking down from the hole in the top of the crying cave. The sounds are made by the wind. “I don’t understand!” said Bear scout Fred. “I’ll show you!” said Bear Scout Ted. “It’s like when you blow across the top of a bottle.” WHO-O-O-O-O-O-O2. 1984 The Berenstain Bears and MAMA’s NEW JOB STAN and JAN BERENSTAIN    The Bear family, who lived in the big tree house down a sunny dirt road deep in Bear Country, was a very happy family. One of the reasons was that they were all very busy. Each member of the family had work to do. Papa Bear cut and split logs and made the wood into handsome furniture which he was proud to sell. Mama Bear not only took care of her family, but she managed the whole tree house and tended the vegetable patch as well. And, of course, Brother and Sister Bear had important jobs too: going to school and keeping up with their schoolwork. The members of the Bear family had hobbies, too. Papa’s favorite hobbies were fishing and napping. He caught almost as many naps as he caught fish. Brother and Sister also had many hobbies. Brother was especially proud of his model airplanes. He liked to have Mama watch him fly his models, and sometimes she helped him fly his tether plane. Sister was a super rope-jumper and her goal was to jump a thousand times without a miss. She liked to have Mama count for her because Sister could jump faster than she could count. Since Mama was so busy with her household duties, she had time for just one hobby–but what a hobby! Mama was the best quilt maker in all of Bear Country! Her quilts were light and fluffy, but very warm. Her stitchery was fine and even. And her designs were original and exciting. Sister Bear slept cozy and warm under a quilt that showed her jumping rope. Brother went to sleep under a handsome airplane design. And the big quilt on Mama and Papa’s bed showed the Bear family’s beautiful tree house. Yes, the members of the Bear family had happy, busy, full lives. Especially Mama. “My dear,” called Papa to Mama as she worked in the vegetable patch, “if it wouldn’t be too much trouble, would you put aside any fishing worms you might find?” “Look, Mama!” called Brother. “I’m going to fly my new biplane!” “I’m going to try for a thousand, Mama!” said Sister. “Would you please count for me?” A little too full, thought Mama from time to time. She would have liked to have a little more time for her quilts. She had some lovely design ideas she wanted to try: a sunburst with clouds and bluebirds... a beautiful bouquet of flowers with butterflies... and a harvest scene with pumpkins and squash. But there just never seemed to be enough time. Then one day something happed that changed the lives of the Bear family–something that changed Mama’s quilt-making from a hobby... into a business! It might not have happened except for a coincidence, which is when two things happen at the same time. The two things that happened were that Papa had a big sale of some very special furniture, and on the same day Mam hung out the family quilts to air. Folks who came to buy Papa’s handsome furniture became excited about Mama’s beautiful quilts and wanted to buy them, too. Would-be buyers offered Mama quite a lot of money. They were very disappointed when she told them that the quilts were not for sale. “With your talent, you really should be in business!” they said. “Mama in business?” said Papa, patting her on the shoulder. “I don’t think so. One business-bear in the family is enough.” But Mama wasn’t so sure. She was proud of her quilt-making skills and knowledge. After all, she was president of the Bear Country Quilting Club. Other quilt makers often came to her for help and advice. That evening Papa and the cubs noticed that Mama was very quiet. She was quiet during supper. She was quiet during cleanup. She was quiet all evening. She was quiet because she was thinking–thinking about going into business. The next day at lunch she made her big announcement. “I’ve decided to open up a quilt shop.” she said, “and I’ve rented the empty store just down the road.” “Not that overgrown wreck that’s been empty for years!” protested Papa. “But you don’t want to be a business-bear,” said Sister. “you’re our mama!” “That’s no reason why I shouldn’t open my own quilt shop. A lot of mama bears have jobs: Mrs. Grizzle is a sister; Mrs. Honeybear teaches school; Dr. Gert grizzly is your pediatrician...” “Yeah,” said Brother, “but they’re not our mama!” “There’s really nothing to worry about,” said Mama. “Things aren’t going to be all that different.” “Will you still count for me when I jump rope?” asked Sister. “And will you still watch my fly my airplanes?” Brother wanted to know. “And how about my fishing worms?” asked Papa. “Will you still put them aside for me when you tend the vegetable patch?” “We’ll see about all that,” Mama said. “Meanwhile, I have to be at the shop. Some of my quilt club friends are helping me get it ready–and, oh yes,” she added as she turned to leave, “there’s a lot to do, so supper may be a little late tonight. Ta-ta!” “Ta-ta!” said Papa. “Ta-ta!” said the cubs. Supper wasn’t a little late that night. It was a lot late–and it was Papa and the cubs who prepared it. But they didn’t mind, because although Mama was very tired, she was very happy, too–happy and excited! “Guess what!” said Sister as she served Mama her supper. “I reached a thousand jumps today! Brother counted for me!” “And Sis helped me fly my tether plane! We had a great flight!” added Brother. “And I weeded the vegetable patch,” said Papa, bringing a tub of warm water to Mama for her tired feet. “Well,” said Mama. “I’m very proud of you all.” Papa and the cubs were very proud of her, too. There was no way to tell whether the quilt shop would be a success, but she certainly was giving it a good try. After about two weeks of hard work, the Bear Country Quilt Shop had its grand opening. It was a very exciting event! Not only did Mama sell her own quilts, but she sold quilts for all the members of her club as well. It was a great success. Why, even Mayor and Mrs. Honeypot came in their long lavender limousine. They bought one quilt and ordered three more. “I know what!” said Mama as she closed ups shop that night. “Let’s stop off at the Burger Bear for supper! My treat!” The Bear family celebrated with a delicious Burger Bear supper. Papa and the cubs were very proud of their business-bear wife and mama. The extra money came in handy too!     Country Quilts QUILTS for SALE HOME SWEET TREE FURNITURE SALE FURNITURE SALE GRAND OPENING THE BEAR COUNTRY QUILT SHOP GRAND OPENING THE BEAR COUNTRY QUILT SHOP THE BURGER BEAR3. 1986 The Berenstain Bears and the WEEK at GRANDMA’s Stan & Jan Berenstain    Once in a while the Bear family, who lived in the big tree house down a sunny dirt road deep in Bear Country, got out the family snapshots and looked at the. “What are these?” asked Sister Bear, picking up a book of photos. “I don’t think I’ve ever seen these before.” There were pictures of bears playing tennis, canoeing, dancing, and having all sorts of fun. The bears looked like Mama and Papa, only they were younger and thinner. “They’re pictures of Papa and me on our honeymoon,” said Mama with a smile. “At Grizzly Mountain Lodge,” said Papa. “We had a wonderful time!” “What’s a honeymoon?” asked Brother. “A honeymoon is a special trip couples take when they get married,” explained Mama. “Getting married is a very special happening and celebrating it with a trip is an old custom.” “As a matter of fact” said Papa, “we’ve decided to go on a second honeymoon. We’re going back to the same place and play tennis, go canoeing, and have fun!” “It’ll be lovely,” said Mama. “A second honeymoon sounds like a pretty good idea to me,” said Brother. “Me, too,” said Sister. They scooted out of the room and were back in a jiffy with their vacation things. “Oh, you won’t be coming,” said Papa. “Honeymoons, even second honeymoons, are just for grownups, not for cubs.” “But... but what’s going to happen to us?” asked Sister. “It just so happens,” said Mama, “that Gran has been after me to let you spend a week with her and Gramps. And this will be the perfect opportunity.” “A whole week?” said Brother. “But we’ve never stayed with anybody that long! said Sister. “Well,” said Papa, taking a few practice swings with his tennis racket, “there’s got to be a time for everything.” “What will we do for a whole week?” asked the cubs. “Where will we sleep? What will we eat?” “Goodness!” said Mama. “Such a fuss about a simple thing like spending a week at Grandma’s.” It didn’t seem like a simple thing to the cubs. They loved Gramps and Gran very much, but...well, they just weren’t Mama and Papa. Besides, Gramps and Gran were sort of...old. “What are you taking with you?” Sister asked Brother when it was time to pack. “I’m taking two books, my jacks, and my teddy, of course.” “These,” he said, holding up some books and his best yo-yo. Papa put their suitcases in the car trunk last so that when they got to Gran’s, unloading was as easy as one-to-three. Then, after lots of big bear hugs and kisses, the happy second honeymooners were on their way. “It certainly is good to see young folks having fun,” said Gan as she waved good-bye. “We’re the young folks,” muttered the cubs. “We’re the ones who are supposed to have fun.” “I’m sure you’re hungry after your ride,” said Gran when they went in. “How about some of y special honey nut cookies and milk?” “No thanks, Gran,” said Sister. “I’m not hungry right now.” “Hey, these are really good,” said Brother. Sister sneaked a taste. They were good, but...well, they just weren’t Mama’s. “Now let’s get you up to your room so you can get settled,” said Gramps. The cubs reached for their bags, but before you could say “Grizzly Gramps,” they were gathered up, bags and all, and carried up the steep stairs. Gramps certainly was strong for someone so...old. The room at the top of the stairs was very nice–very nice, indeed, but...well, it just wasn’t home. “Gramps,” said Sister, “where do you suppose Mama and Papa are right now?” “Well,” said Gramps, “I reckon they’re still on the road, just pulling into sight of Grizzly Mountain Lodge.” After they unpacked their things, Gramps thought the cubs might like to explore around the house. While it wasn’t home, it was an interesting house. There was the attic crowded with all sorts of interesting things... Gran’s kitchen with its yummy tastes and smells...and Gramps’ den. Gramps knew how to build a ship in a bottle. When the cubs asked him how it was done, he just smiled. “What do you suppose Mama and Papa are doing now?” they asked then. “I reckon they’ve gotten into their tennis clothes and are swatting the ball back and forth,” he said. Over the next few days Brother and Sister found lots to do. They helped Gran feed her bird friends–more kinds than they had ever seen in one place. And Gran knew all their names. They helped Grams cut and smooth twigs for a new ship in a bobble. It turned out that he built them outside the bottle and then slid them in. It was pretty tricky. They went fishing in a special place Gramps knew about. “Well,” said Gramps as they returned with a fine catch, “I reckon that your mama and papa are out canoeing right now.” “I certainly hope they’re having fun!” said Sister. “Because we sure are!” “Hmm. Better get these chairs in,” said Gramps after a fine fish fry. “It’s going to rain tomorrow.” “How do you know?” asked Brother. “I can feel it in my bones,” answered Gramps. It turned out Gramps was right. “Good,” said Brother. “We’ll be able to relax a little.” Sister got out her jacks and he started to play with his yo-yo. “Used to be pretty good with one of those myself,” said Gramps. Was he ever! Not only could Gramps make the yo-yo sleep and walk-the-dog, he could even do baby-in-cradle and round-the-world! That evening, after a refreshing nap, they all went to Gramps and Gran’s regular Friday night square dance. Gramps and Gran didn’t just watch. They do-si-doed with the best of them. They even won a prize–for Friskiest Couple. “Goodness!” said Sister in the morning. “This week really flew by!” “And we learned so much,” added Brother, practicing baby-in-the-cradle. “Gramps and Gran, how come you know so much?” asked Sister. “So many things! Why, you can even feel the weather in your bones!” “That’s one of the good things about being an older person,” said Gramps, smiling. “You learn something every day. So that by the time you’re old enough to be a grandparent, you know quite a lot. “Gee,” said Sister, “I guess you and Gran are so old you must know everything!” “Oh, no,” said Gramps, laughing. “You never stop learning. Why, just this week we learned something very special. We learned how absolutely wonderful it is to be grandparents and have lovely grandcubs.” Then Gramps and Gran swept their grandcubs up in a big hug. The next thing they knew, a familiar beep! beep! was heard. It was Papa tooting the horn. He and Mama were back from their second honeymoon and it was time for the cubs to go home. After saying good-byes and thank-yous, the Bear family piled into the car and headed home. No sooner were they on their way than Brother and Sister were bubbling over with the fun and excitement of their week at Grandma’s. “Well,” said Papa, “sounds like you had a pretty good time.” “Oh, we did!” said Sister. “Papa, sometime you might want to go on a third honeymoon. Then we could spend another week at Grandma’s. “A third honeymoon?” said Papa. “I don’t think anyone’s ever gone on a third honeymoon.” “Well,” said Sister, “there has to be a first time for everything!”GRANDMA’S PHOTOS PHOTOS Welcome1989 The Berenstain Bears and the In-Crowd Stan & Jan BerenstainIt was early summer in Bear Country. School had been out for a few weeks, and Brother and Sister Bear had settled into a comfortable routine of bike riding, playing ball, exploring, and just generally having fun. They had chores, of course–keeping their room neat, helping with yard cleanup, and, when he got very busy, helping Papa Bear in his shop. Mostly, though, they were looking forward to a carefree summer of fun and relaxation. But sometimes the road ahead is not as smooth as we would like. Sometimes there are unexpected potholes in the road of life, and Sister Bear, as it turned out, was headed for a real wheel-buster. With school closed, the playground was the gathering place for Brother, Sister, and the neighborhood cubs. It had swings and slides, a jungle gym, a track, and a sandbox for little cubs. There were also jump ropes, Frisbees, and soccer balls you could get from Miss Mack, who was in charge. On most days Sister would stop off for her best friend, Lizzy Bruin, and they would go to the playground together. After a swing and a slide or two they would get a jump rope from Miss Mack. Lately, they had been getting two ropes for Double Dutch. In Double Dutch, the jumper jumps over two ropes that are being turned in opposite directions. It isn’t easy, but Sister and Lizzy and some of their friends had been practicing and were getting pretty good at it. That’s what was happening the day the trouble started. Sister and Lizzy had two ropes and were looking for other cubs to join them. But where was everybody? Where were Anna, Millie, and Linda, their usual jumpmates? As they looked around they spied a small crowd at the far corner of the playground near the bike rack. That’s when Anna ran by. “How about a little Double Dutch?” called Sister. “Can’t now!” shouted Anna. “There’s a new cub with a terrific ten-speed bike and she’s letting us take turns riding it!” It sounded interesting, and even though Sister and Lizzy were still a bit small for two-wheelers, they decided to investigate. The new cub not only had a pretty sharp bike–it was purple and had ten speeds and hand brakes–she was pretty sharp herself. She wore purple stretch pants, a designer top, a yellow headband, and hoop earrings. “Her name’s Queenie McBear,” whispered Anna, “and she just moved into the neighborhood. She has pierced ears!” Sister pushed through the crowd, gave the newcomer who was taller than she was and a little older, a big smile, and said, “Hi! I’m Sister Bear!” Queenie smiled too, but it wasn’t exactly friendly. “Sister Bear?” she said. “Now what kind of a name is that? And you’ve got to be kidding with those clothes–a pink ruffled jumper and a hair bow?” “Well...”said Sister, a little confused. “it’s my mid of name. And as for my clothes...” “Why don’t you and your little friend go play in the sandbox?” interrupted Queenie, not giving Sister a chance to finish. Then she got on her bike and shouted, “Come on, gang! Let’s go to the Dairy Bear for some soft ice cream! My treat!” And off she zoomed down the road. Jumpmates Anna, Millie, and Linda looked a little embarrassed, but soft ice cream was soft ice cream, so they got on their bikes with the rest and followed Queenie down the road. Now Sister was very confused–and upset, too. “I don’t get it,” said Lizzy. “All you did was say hi...Say, I know what,” she added, trying to cheer her up, “I heard that Miss Mack is organizing a Double-Dutch tournament with prizes and everything! Come on! Let’s go sign up!” Sister Bear didn’t even answer. She was so upset that she just turned and went home. She was usually so cheerful after a session at the playground that it didn’t take long for Mama Bear to figure out that something must have gone wrong. Papa and Brother Bear noticed too. After supper, the whole story of Queenie came out–her bike, her sharp clothes, and how she’d made fun of Sister and then treated everybody to soft ice cream. “Everybody except me and Lizzy,” she said glumly. “What did she make fun of?” asked Mama. “My name, my clothes, my hair bow...me!” said Sister. “Oh dear,” said Mama. “That wasn’t very nice, not very nice at all–maybe she was just trying to make an impression.” “Well, she certainly made an impression on me,” said Sister. “A bad impression.” Of course, Mama had been a cub once and she knew about in-crowds and cubs like Queenie who tried to build themselves up by putting other cubs down. But she also knew that it didn’t do much good to stew about it. So she gave Sister a hug and said, “Don’t fret, sweetie. I’m sure things will look a lot brighter in the morning.” Things did look a lot brighter in the morning, and Sister Bear was once again her confident self. She decided that today she would ride her trike to the playground. The playground was just as much hers as Queenie’s and besides, she wanted to ask Miss Mack about that Double-Dutch tournament. It sounded interesting. And maybe Queenie wouldn’t even be there. Queenie was not only there; she and the gang were riding around the track on their bikes. When Sister tried to join in, all she got for her trouble was a cloud of dust and more of Queenie’s smart talk. “Well, if it isn’t Little Miss Hair Bow on her tricycle! Excuse our dust!” she shouted as she whizzed past. Excuse her dust indeed, thought Sister, getting an idea–I’ll show that Queenie McBear! She pedaled home as fast as she could. She hoped Brother Bear wasn’t out riding his big two-wheeler, because that was her idea: to borrow his bike, go back, and ride circles around that Queenie McBear. She managed to get on Brother’s bike by standing on a step–and she almost got it going. But her legs were a little too short, and after a few wobbly circles she crashed–ker-whomp! “Oh dear!” said Mama, who had just returned from a quick shopping tried to the mall and was watching from one of the tree-house window. She had a pretty good idea that Sister’s attempt to ride the two-wheeler had something to do with Queenie and the in-crowd. “I guess you had another run-in with that new cub,” she said as Sister came into the house. “Well, here’s a little something to cheer you up.” She reached into her shopping bag and took out some new clothes–some new and different clothes for Sister Bear. There were some very sharp jeans, a green-and-white striped designer top, and a bright green headband. “For me?” said Sister. “Of course,” said Mama. “Come on, now. LEt’s try them on. You know,” she continued as she helped Sister out of her pink ruffled jumper and polka dot blouse and into her new outfit, “maybe these new things will change your luck.” “Maybe,” agreed Sister. But then she asked, “Mama, why did Queenie pick on me like that?” “Well,” said mama thoughtfully, “sometimes there are cubs, even grownups, who behave that way. They show off for the crowd by picking on someone who has a certain kind of name or wears a certain kind of clothes. They try to build themselves up by putting others down. That’s how in-crowds get started.” “But how about Anna, Millie, and Linda?” asked Sister. “They’ve always been my friends. Why did they side with Queenie?” “Maybe because they were glad Queenie wasn’t picking on them–and soft ice cream is soft ice cream–there!” she said, removing Sister’s pink hair bow and putting on her new headband. “You’re all set! Here, have a look at yourself in the big mirror.” “It’s very nice,” Sister said, “and I really appreciate the new thing. But there’s one problem: It’s just not me! I like me,” she said as she stepped down, “and I wouldn’t change me for a whole bunch of Queenie McBear. Then she took off her new outfit and put her old one back on, hair bow and all. “And she can keep her old in-crowd! Excuse me, Mama. I have to make a phone call.” She marched over to the phone and dialed a number. “Hello, Lizzy,” she said. “About that Double-Dutch tournament...” The Double-Dutch tournament had gotten to be a big thing. A lot of teams signed up. There were even some boy-cub teams. Brother Bear was on one, along with Cousin Fred and the Too-Tall gang. When Sister and Lizzy signed up, Anna, Millie, and Linda quit Queenie’s team and joined Sisters. Not only was Sister the best Double Dutcher in the neighborhood, but Anna and the others were getting a little tired of Queenie’s snooty ways. Sister Bear led her team in as fine an exhibition of Double-Dutch jumping as had ever been seen in Bear Country. It was no contest; her team won going away! Queenie’s team was a Double-Dutch disaster–especially Queenie, who made the mistake of wearing beads and big hoop earrings that caught in the rope and ended in a terrible tangle. After the prizes were awarded, the cubs all crowded around and congratulated Sister. They wanted her to teach them some of her Double-Dutch tricks.  As they lined up for lessons, Lizzy called out to Queenie, “How about you?” “No thanks,” said Queenie with a little grin. “I’ve already learned my lesson.” 1987The Berenstain Bears and the BAD HABIT Stan & Jan BerenstainSister Bear, who lived with her mama, papa, and brother in the big tree house down a sunny dirt road deep in Bear Country, had been going to school for a quite a while. First there had been nursery school, which was pure fun–playing with dolls and blocks, rolling clay snakes, and scribbling with crayons. Next had come kindergarten. That was fun too. There were marching games and rhythm band. She also learned a lot of numbers in kindergarten–and most of the alphabet. Now Sister was in first grade. Regular school was different. It was still fun and she liked Teacher Jane very much, but it wasn’t all fun. There was quite a lot of work–spelling, number problems, all kinds of things. In regular school you have to concentrate–and sometimes when you concentrate, you form little nervous habits. That’s what happened to some of the cubs in Teacher Jane’s class. Lizzy twirled her fur. Twirl, twirl, twirl. Freddy scratched his head. Scratch, scratch, scratch. Norman sucked his thumb. Suck, suck, suck. And Sister nibbled her nails. Nibble, nibble, nibble, nibble. Before she knew it, she had nibbled them down to nubbins. In fact, she nibbled them down so far that some of her fingers were getting sore. “Oh, dear!” said Mama Bear to Sister when the cubs got home from school one day. “You’ve nibbled yur nails down to nubbins. In fact, you’ve nibbled them cleaned off. How did it happen?” “I’m not exactly sure, Mama,” Sister said. “But some of them are getting sore.” “Hmm,” said Mama. “Well, here’s what we’ll do. We’ll put a little medicine on the sore ones and bits of adhesive tape on all of them. That will remind you not to nibble and will give them a change to grow back” The bits of tape helped Sister remember not to nibble, but they also got in the way when she tried to do certain things. It’s very hard to hole a pencil with tape all over your fingertips, or tune the TV, or scratch when you have an itch. But worst of all, the bits of tape told the whole world that Sister Bear was a nail biter. The next morning, when sister lined up for school, Lizzy Bruin and some others began pointing and teasing. “Sister nibbles her nails! Sister nibbles her nails!” It didn’t take Sister long to decide to pull off those bits of tape! And without the tape, she forgot to remember not to nibble. She forgot during school. She forgot on the bus. She even forgot as she and Brother climbed off the bus. “You’re going to have to cut that out, Sis,” said Brother, “or you’ll get to e a regular full-time nail biter.” “I’m afraid your brother’s right,” said Mama, who was organizing the wheelbarrow for some garden work. “I don’t mean to ng, but nail biting is a very difficult habit to break.” “Habit?” asked Sister, making fists so that her nubby, nibbled-off nails wouldn’t show. “What’s a habit?” “That’s a good question,” said Mama. “Come along while I plant these tulip bulbs Grizzly Gran sent over and we’ll talk about it. “A habit,” Mama said as she pushed the wheelbarrow along the well-worn path, “is something you do so often you don’t even have to think about it. Habits are a very important part of our lives. And most of them are good–like brushing your teeh and combing your fur when you get up in the morning, and looking both ways before you cross a road. But some habits aren’t so good.” “Like nail biting?” asked Sister. “You would like to have your nice nails grow back, wouldn’t you?” as Mama’s answer. “Oh, yes!” said Sister. “But I keep forgetting! Why is it so hard to remember?” “Well,” said Mama, “it’s sort of like this path. I’ve wheeled this barrow over it so many times that it’s worn a deep rut right down the middle. And it keeps getting deeper every time I use it. Why, it’s so deep now that I can’t get out of it without a little help.” “That’s the way it is with a bad habit–the more you use it, the harder it is to get out of it. Here, this is where I want to plant the bulbs.” “What about my nail-biting habit?” asked Sister as she helped Mama out of the deep rut. “How am I going to get out of it?” “You just need a little help, that’s all,” said Mama. “Let’s lant Gran’s tulips while I think about it. And later I’ll talk to your papa. He may have some ideas.” “I could read the riot act to her,” suggested Papa. “You know: ‘Nail biting is an outrageous, disgraceful habit and if you don’t stop it immediately–‘” “Dear me, no!” said Mama. “Nail biting is a kind of nervous habit, and shouting and threatening will just make her more nervous.” “I suppose so,” said Papa thoughtfully. “Perhaps some sort of reward would help. A bit of money–Let’s say a dime for every day she doesn’t bite her nails.” Before Mama could answer, Sister Bear, who had been nervously nibbling in the next room, popped in and said, “A dime–ten whole cents every day just for not biting my nails?” “That’s right,” said Papa. “Until the habit’s broken.” “I’ll never nibble again!” she said as she thought of all those lovely dimes she was going to get. But the way it turned out, she didn’t get a single dime. All she got was discouraged. A day is a long time and habits are powerful–especially bad habits. Even with the promise of a dime, Sister couldn’t remember not to nibble. Mama and Papa got discouraged too. “Oh, well,” sighed Mama. “Life goes on. I must call Gran and thank her for the tulip bulbs.” “Oh, you’re very welcome, my dear,” said Gran when Mama called. “And how is everything at your house?...Is that so?...You know, I was a nail biter when I was a cub and my mama helped me to stop. What have you tried so far?... Um...Uh-huh...Well, I think you’re on the right track with the dime, but instead of a dime, and instead of giving it to her at the end of the day...” “What an interesting idea,” said Mama as she listened to wise old Grizzly Gran. So they tried Gran’s idea. Instead of a dime at the end of each day, they gave Sister ten pennies–one for each nail–at the beginning of each day. Ten pennies to keep–unless she nibbled. And with those pennies in her pocket, jiggling when she got on the school bus, jingling when she jumped rope in the schoolyard...just waiting to be remembered when some nail decided it needed a nibble...the plan worked! Not perfectly. It’s hard to break a habit, and Sister had to give back some of those pennies. But in ten days she had ninety-three pennies! But even better: she had ten fine fingernails. Great for picking things up, turning the TV, and scratching itches. And the next time she played jacks she got all the way to tensies! “Phew!” said Papa Bear. “I’m glad that’s over.” “Yes, indeed!” agreed Mama, breathing a great sigh of relief. That’s when Brother Bear looked at his fingernails and piped up, “You know, I think I might start biting my nails–I could use the money.” “I certainly hope you’re joking!” roared Papa. “Because if you’re not–” “I’m joking. I’m joking,” interrupted Brother.  And he was–sort of.11111 2222 3333 4444 Aa Aa Bb Bb CcCc HAT BAT CAT BALL TALL WALL UP/DOWN BIG/SMALL OUT/IN 3+4=7 3+4=7 2+5=7 2+5=7 SCHOOL BUS1987 The Berestain Bears and the TROUBLE at SCHOOL Stan & Berenstain    Though Brother and Sister Bear were usually very healthy, they occasionally caught cold. So when Brother came home from school one day sneezing and wheezing. Mama Bear knew just what to do. She took his temperature, tucked him into bed, and went right to the phone and called Dr. Grizzly. “Sneezing and wheezing and a temperature of a hundred and one?” said Dr. Grizzly. “Keep him in bed, give him plenty of liquids, and keep him home from school until his temperature is back to normal.” Mama followed the doctor’s orders, and little by little Brother’s temperature began to go down. “I feel a little better,” he said. “May I get out of bed?” “I’m afraid not,” said Mama. “The doctor wants you to stay in bed.” “But there’s no reason why your stay shouldn’t be as pleasant as possible...Papa!” she called. “Would you bring up the portable TV?” The portable had remote control, and pretty soon Brother was having a fine time switching from one cartoon show to another. When he tired of TV he got out his comic books, and when he tired of those, Mama brought him his dinosaur collection. There was no doubt about it–except for his sniffles, Brother Bear was having a pretty good time. So when Sister Bear brought home a folder of schoolwork for him, he hardly looked at it–he was much too busy having fun. But while he was at home having fun, his fellow students at school were hard at work... In the classroom, where Teacher Bob was teaching a new math lesson. They had learned to add, subtract, and multiply. Now they were learning to divide. On the soccer field, where Coach Bruin was getting the team ready for the big game against Beartown... “Cousin Freddy!” he called. “Take Brother’s place at forward. He’s out sick.” “Yes, sir!” said Freddy. This was the chance he’d been waiting for.  It wasn’t until Brother was all better and ready to go back to school that he remembered the folder of work. “Oh well,” he thought, “I’ll study it on the bus.” But that’s where he heard about Freddy and the soccer team. He was so upset he forgot all about studying. When Coach Bruin had extra practice during early gym, Brother became even more upset. It wasn’t easy watching Freddy take his place on the team. Then, when Brother got back to class, Teacher Bob said, “I certainly hope you studied that work folder, because we’re going to have a quiz.” “A quiz?” said Brother. “On what?” “On division, of course,” said Teacher Bob as he handed out the quiz papers. Brother might have managed even then. He was good with numbers and might have worked things out if only he’d been able to concentrate. But all he could think about was Cousin Freddy out there kicking field goals while he sat on the bench. The quiz was a disaster. Not only did Brother get every problem wrong, but Teacher Bob wrote on the paper: “Very poor! Must be signed by parent.” Brother didn’t know which was worse: the soccer mess or the quiz disaster. What would he say to Mama and Papa when they asked him how things had gone at school? He was so busy feeling sorry for himself on the bus ride home that he didn’t notice that Sister was coming down with a bad case of the sneezes and wheezes. “Oh, dear!” said Mama when she saw Sister. “You’ve caught Brother’s cold. Into bed with you!” She and Papa were so busy attending to Sister that they forgot to ask Brother how things went at school...and he didn’t tell them! And the next morning, when the school bus came, Brother didn’t get on the bus! He hid in the tall grass until the bus was out of sight. The squirrels and bluebirds were puzzled–Brother was usually happy and cheerful. But not this morning. This morning he looked unhappy–and angry, too. “Phooey!” Brother shouted, kicking a stone. But kicking the stone reminded him of soccer and that just made him angrier. The bluebirds took off and the squirrels scattered. “Phooey on soccer!” he shouted, stomping off through the woods. Stomp! Stomp! Stomp! Grasshoppers hopped. Toads stood stock-still and pretended they were bumps on a log. “Phooey on school!” Brother shouted, stomping out of the woods. Pansies hid their faces. Ladybugs flew away home.  “And,” he said, reaching into his schoolbag, “phooey on division!” He had come to the top of a big hill. He took out the quiz, folded it into a paper airplane, and sailed it high into the air. The hill overlooked a swampy, overgrown bog. As Brother watched the quiz circle and swoop he noticed something out of the corner of his eye–a familiar house at the edge of the bog. Grizzly Gramps was working on a ship model when he heard the knock. Gran was making cookies. They weren’t expecting visitors and they certainly weren’t expecting Brother–especially during school hours. It didn’t take long for the whole story to come out. Gramps and Gran listened quietly as Brother told them about catching cold, the folder of work, the soccer mess, the quiz disaster, the missed bus, and the paper airplane. “Come with me, young feller,” said Gramps. “I want to show you something.” Gramps took Brother by the hand and led him deep into the bog. “There!” he said. “That’s what I want to show you.” It was a very old wagon sunk almost out of sight in a muddy pond. “How did it get there?” asked Brother. “It wasn’t easy,” said Gramps. “I went to a lot of trouble getting that old wagon into this swamp.” Then, with a twinkle in his eye, he said, “Just the way you did getting in over your head at school! “It happed a long time ago when I took a wrong turn–just the way you did when you didn’t study that schoolwork that Teacher Bob sent home. Well, instead of admitting my mistake and backing up, I just pushed ahead until I was in so deep there was no getting out.” “And you lost the wagon,” said Brother. “Yep,” said Gramps. “But I learned a valuable lesson. If you find yourself on the wrong road, don’t just keep on going until you’re in over your head–back up and start over on the right road.” “How am I going to do that?” asked Brother. “Oh, I think we can manage–but first, look over there,” Gramps said, pointing. There it was: the paper airplane–caught in a berry bush. “What do you think they’ll say?” asked Brother later as they bounced along in Gramps’s pickup.  “We’ll find out soon enough,” said Gramps, pulling to a stop in front of the big tree house. “And let’s not forget Gran’s bag of cookies. They’re her finest.” Mama and Papa weren’t exactly pleased when they heard about the big mess Brother had gotten himself into. But they didn’t holler and pound the table, either–not even Papa. He looked like he might be going to when he saw the paper he had to sign–Gramps had tried to flatten it out but it was still pretty wrinkled. “What happened to this? he asked. “Oh,” said Gramps. “It just sort of got folded a bit.” That’s when he brought out Gran’s cookies. There were ten of them. “Let’s see, now,” he said, “there are five of us counting Sister. So how many cookies do we each get?” “Two, of course,” said Brother, dividing them up. “Don’t look now, young feller,” said Gramps with a wink, “but you just divided then by five!” “Is that all there is to dividing?” said Brother. “That’s all,” said Gramps. “Come along,” said Mama in a no-nonsense voice. “Where are we going?” asked Brother. “To school,” Mama said as they got in the car. “But it’s so late,” protested Brother. “It’s never too late to correct a mistake,” Mama said, and of they went. Brother got to class jsut in time for a retest. The class hadn’t done very well on the division quiz, so Teacher Bob was giving them a second chance. Brother really concentrated and did much better. And that afternoon he got a second chance at soccer, too. It was the day of the big game against Beartown and things weren’t going very well. “Brother,” said Coach Bruin, “I want you to go in for Freddy. I don’t think he’s quite ready for first team.” “Glad to help, Coach,” Brother said as he ran out onto the field. “You know what they say–it’s never too late to correct a mistake.”AH-CHOO DIPLOMA DR. GERT GRIZZLY SOCCER IS HOW I GET MY KICKS SOCCER IS HOW I GET MY KICKS MAKE-UP WORK 3/96 = 32 MAKE-UP WORK VERY POOR! MUST BE SIGNED BY PARENT SCHOOL BUS AH-CHOO SHCOOL BUS SCHOOL BUS STOP AH CHOO MAKE-UP WORK VERY POOR! MUST BE SIGNED BY PARENT SHCOOL BUS SCHOOL BUS STOP VERY POOR! MUST BE SIGNED BY PARENT VERY GOOD! FAIR HOME TEAM 0 to 0 VISITOR 1 to 2 1988 The Berenstain Bears and the BAD DREAM Stan & BerenstainBrother Bear was just crazy about Space Grizzlies. Space Grizzlies were little toy action figures that you could collect. Sister Bear didn’t like them much. She thought they were dumb (and a little scary). Mama Bear didn’t mind them except when Brother brought them to the table or left them on the stairs. Papa Bear didn’t care about them one way or the other. But Brother cared about them a lot. He cared about them so much that he did chores for neighbors to make extra money so he could buy more. He had quite a few. But the store had more. A lot more. He was saving up to buy Sleezo’s Cloud Castle. Sleezo was the evilest of all the Space Grizzlies, and the wicked-looking Cloud Castle was where he planned all his evil deeds. When Brother had saved enough money, he went along on a shopping trip to the Bear Country Mall and made his purchase. The Cloud Castle came in a big box, and he could hardly wait to get home to play with it. But as he was getting into the car, he saw something that was even more exciting than the Cloud Castle. It was a movie poster. It said: COMING SOON. SPACE GRIZZLIES–THE MOVIE! “A Space Grizzlies movie!” he cried. “It looks great! I can’t wait to see it!” “I can,” said Sister. “Looks scary to me.” “May I see it when it comes, Mama?” asked Brother. “May I, please?” “Hmm,” said Mama. “We’ll see when the time comes.” When they got home, Brother opened his new Cloud Castle, got out all his Space Grizzlies, and was all set to play the biggest Space Grizzly game ever. But... he had nobody to play with. Nobody, that is, except Sister. “Want to play Space Grizzlies, Sis?” he asked. “No way,” she said. “Aw, come on,” he said. “I’ll play any game you want if you’ll play Space Grizzlies with me.” “Any three games,” she said driving a hard bargain. “Which three?” he asked warily. “Papa dolls, jacks, and beanbags,” she answered. “Papa dolls, jacks, and beanbags!” he protested. “Give me a break!” “Take it or leave it,” she said. He took it. And after some lively sessions of paper dolls, jacks, and beanbags, it was time for...–SPACE GRIZZLIES! “I am Sleezo, evil king of the universe! roared Brother. “Calling all spaceships! Seek and destroy the planet Magongo, home of my sworn enemy, Heero the Magnificent!” “Oh, no, you don’t!” Sister shouted back. “I am Heero the Magnificent! One touch from my sleep wand and your evil ways will be ended!” They played until Mama called them for dinner.  “Brother,” said Mama, “how many times must I tell you–no Space Grizzlers at the table!” Papa was taking a peek at the Bear Country News. “Brother,” he said, “that movie of yours starts tomorrow.” “May I see it, Mama, please?” asked Brother. “I don’t know why not,” she said. “Why haven’t been to the movies in a while.” “I know why not,” said Sister. “Because it’s scary.” “That’s no problem,” said Papa. “There are lots of movies to choose from.” He was right. The Bear Country Theater was really four movie houses in one, and there were usually four different movies playing. “This looks good,” said Mama. “The Magic Toeshoes. It’s a musical about a ballerina.” So when they got to the movies to the next evening. Mama, Papa, and Sister got in line for The Magic Toeshoes, and Brother joined a bunch of his friends in line for Space Grizzlies. The Magic Toeshoes told the story of a young bear who wanted to e a ballerina. But every time she tried to dance on her toes she wiggled and wobbled. The old ballet master took pity on her and gave her a pair of magic toeshoes which cured her wiggles and wobbles. But on the night of the big ballet, she left her magic toeshoes on the bus! Without them she was all wiggles and wobbles again. That’s when the ballet master told her they weren’t magic at all! They were just ordinary toeshoes. The wobbly ballerina got her confidence back and danced beautifully ever after. The Space Grizzly movie was about Space Grizzlies, of course: great monstrous big-screen ones who zapped and zoomed through space until that final intergalactic shootout. It was very exciting and not a little scary. It was dark when the Bear family got home, so it was off to be for the cubs. It was already late for Sister, and she went right to sleep. But Brother was so excited by the movie that he lay awake for quite a while. He was just about to doze off when Sister woke up screaming. “Hel-lp!” she screamed. “They’re after me!” “Who’s after you? asked Brother. “Space Grizzlies!” she wailed. “Thousands of them!” “Calm down, sillyhead. It’s only a dream,” he said. But Sister leaped out of bed and ran into Mama and Papa’s room. The little silly, Brother thought. Imagine–being afraid of a dopey dream. Then he yawned, turned over, and went to sleep. Mama and Papa tried to calm Sister. They took her into their bed and hugged her. “Tell us about your dream,” said Mama. “Dream?” Sister said. “Yes,” said Papa. “You must have had a nightmare. That’s the word for a bad dream.” “But it was so real!” she said, calming down a bit. “That’s how it is with dreams,” he said. “it’s as if they’re really happening, but they’re not–they’re just in your mind.”“Can you tell us your ream? asked Mama. “It was awful!” Sister said. “I was a ballet star dancing on my toes, and then the stage turned into a giant beanbag board and the Space Grizzlies came out of the beanbag holes and chased me and I fell down one of the holes.” “I kept falling and falling and then I woke up. It was awful!” she sailed again, and buried her face in Mama’s nightgown. “I’m sure it was, sweetie,” said Mama. “But it was also very interesting.” “Interesting?” Sister said in a puzzled voice. “Oh yes,” said Mama. “you see, even though you go to sleep, your mind keeps right on thinking. But it doesn’t think in a sensible way. It takes all the things you were thinking or were nervous about during the day and puts them together all jumbled like a mixed-up zigsaw puzzle.” “You mean–like the ballet dancer from the movie?” said Sister. “Sure,” said Papa. “And the beanbag board from playing beanbags with Brother–” she added. “And the Space Grizzlies–” began Mama. “Where from playing Space Grizzlies with Brother and from seeing the movie poster!” Sister said. “Exactly,” said Papa. “Say,” she said. “That is interesting!” That’s when they heard Brother. “Hel-l-lp!” he screamed. “They’re after me! They’re after me!” Then he raced into the room, jumped into the bed, and hid his face in Papa’s pajamas. “Calm down, son” said Papa. “It was just a bad dream.” “A nightmare,” added Sister. “That’s another word for bad dream.” “Can you tell us about it?” asked Mama. “Well, I was eating dinner and the food turned into Space Grizzlies–gigantic ones, and they chased me and I turned into a paper doll and my clothes were flying off! It was awful!” “You’re awake now, dear,” said Mama. “Everything’s going to be all right.” “But Mama,” he said, “it was so real.” “Of course it was,” said Sister. “That’s the way dreams are. Let me explain it to you.” And she did. Some dreams make cubs laugh. Some dreams make them cry. It’s interesting to think about what they dream and why.SPACE GRIZZLIES HEADQUARTERS TOYS BEAR COUNTRY BARN THEATER COMING SOON SPACE GRIZZLIES THE MOVIE SPACE DOOR BUT STOP1994 The Berenstain Bears and the BULLYOne day, Mama, Papa, and Brother Bear were busy in the yard when Sister Bear came home crying. Her face was scratched and dirty, and her clothes were torn. “What happened to you?” asked Mama. “Please tell us,” said Papa. Brother couldn’t believe how beat-up Sister looked. Her jumper and blouse were turn. Her face and fur were a mess. Even her pink bow was drooping. “Did you fall?” asked Mama. Sister shook her head no. “Was there an accident?” asked Papa. Once again she shook her head no. “I think I can tell you what happened,” said Brother. “It looks to me like somebody beat her up.” “Beat her up? That’s outrageous!” said Papa. “Who in the world would beat up a sweet little cub like Sister?” asked Mama. “A bully might,” said Brother. That’s when Sister stopped crying long enough to get some words out. “B-B-Brother’s right,” she sobbed. “A no-good nasty rotten bully beat me up–and for no reason!” Just the thought of it made her so angry that she started to cry all over again. Mama and Papa helped Sister up the steps and into the house. After a drink of water, she calmed down enough to tell them what had happened. “Lizzy, Queenie, and I were playing tag at the playground when this new cub–a no-good bully named Tuffy–stuck out a foot and tripped me. So I got up and said, “Why don’t you watch where you put your fee?” Before I knew what was happening, it was POW, BAM, WHAMMO, and I was flat on my back with this Tuffy character sitting on my chest rubbing dirt in my face.” “Outrageous!” roared Papa. “Where’s my hat? I’m going over to that playground and–“ Mama pulled Papa aside. “You’re going to do no such thing,” she said. “But something has to be done,” Papa said. “Indeed, it does,” agreed Mama. “But right now we have to take care of Sister.” She turned to call, “Brother! Would you please get me a wet washclo–Where’s Brother?” “Don’t know,” said Sister. “He was here one minute, and the next minute he was gone.” Lizzy and Queenie were still at the playground when Brother got there. “I’ve got a knuckle sandwich for some bully named Tuffy,” he said. “Where is he?” “Brother,” said Lizzy, “I think there’s something you ought to–“ “Never mind the small talk,” he growled. “Just point him out and get out of the way!” Lizzy shrugged and pointed to the small building that housed the Boy’s Room and the Girls’ Room. But there was no one there. No one, that is, but a little girl who was coming out of the Girls’ Room. But hold everything! The little girl was wearing a T-shirt that said Tuffy! “You’re Tuffy?” said Brother. “Yeah,” she said. “Wanna make somethin’ out of it?” “But–but you’re a girl!” said Brother. “What did you expect me to be–an eggplant?” said Tuffy. Brother Bear was shocked right down to his very bones. This big bully he was going to clean up the playground with was not only a girl, but a little girl at that. Maybe even a bit smaller than Sister. When Lizzy and Queenie came over to watch, Tuffy figure out who Brother was. “Hey! said she. “You must be the big brother of Little Miss Pink hairbow! She got fresh, so I cleaned her clock. Wanna make somethin’ out of it?” That was exactly what Brother wanted to do. But there was no way he could hit a girl. If he did, then he’d be the bully. It was all he could do to turn away and leave. “Chicken! Just like your sister!” yelled Tuffy. Brother headed home, hands in pockets, staring at the ground. Something had to be done! But what? As he passed the school, Brother got an idea. But he would have to hurry. It was Friday afternoon, and the school would be closing for the weekend. He hoped Mr. Grizzmeyer, the gym teacher, hadn’t left yet. When Brother got home, he was carrying something in a big bag. Instead of going in the front door, he quietly opened the side hatch and dropped the bag into the cellar. Then he closed the hatch and rejoined the family by going in the front door. “Where have you been?” asked Mama. “We’ve been having a family meeting.” “Er–I was just checking out the playground,” Brother said. “And no doubt you found out that Tuffy is a girl,” said Mama. “We’ve been discussing the situation and have pretty much decided that the best thing for Sister to do is simply to avoid his awful Tuffy person. Then, too, you’ll be at school, and you can keep an eye on Sister. What do you think of the plan? “It’s okay,” said Brother. “But Sister’s the one that got beat up. What does she think?” “It’s okay, I guess,” said Sister. “But what I’d really like to do is punch that Tuffy’s nose right through her face, then kick her in the shin, then knock her down and–“ “Now, Sister,” said Mama, “we’ve been through all that.” Good! thought Brother. Sister and I are on the same wavelength. Before dinner, Brother passed Sister a note. It said, Important! Meet me in the cellar at seven o’clock.” The first thing Sister saw when she showed up for the secret meeting was one of Mama’s big bags of dried beans sitting on a stool. There was a drawing of a face marked Tuffy taped to it, and Brother was standing beside it holding the bag he had gotten at school. He also had a book. “What’s this all about?” asked Sister. “It’s about that Tuffy character, and you not getting beat up again,” Brother said. “Sounds good so far,” said Sister. “Mama’s bag of beans is a punching bag,” Brother said. “A punching bag named Tuffy,” said Sister. “Perfect!” She gave the beans a pretty good punch. “Not bad,” said Brother. “What’s in the other bag?” Sister asked. “Boxing gloves,” Brother said. “And this book is called The Art of Self-Defense.” “Where did you get all this stuff?” asked Sister. “From Mr. Grizzmeyer. I told him I had a friend who was having trouble with a bully. We’ve got it just for the weekend. It goes back Monday morning.” “Then what are we waiting for?” Sister said. “LET’S GET STARTED!” Sister turned out to be a good student of the art of self-defense. With Brother’s help, she learned–the left jab, the right cross, the left hook, and the upper cut. She also learned to duck. And she punched Mama’s dried beans silly. “Well, you learned quite a lot over the weekend,” Brother said on Monday morning. “But there’s something very important for you to remember: You still have to avoid Tuffy! She’s a mean little thing. She was even ready to take me on!” “Don’t worry,” said Sister. “I can still feel where she socked me on the jaw.” Sister did a good job of avoiding Tuffy. She avoided her all day Monday and all day Tuesday. But at recess on Wednesday, Tuffy did something so mean and nasty that Sister just had to do something. Tuffy was throwing stones at a baby bird that couldn’t fly yet! “Stop that, you bully!” shouted Sister. “You’ll hurt that baby bird!” “Well, if it isn’t Little Miss Pink Hairbow!” said Tuffy. “You know somethin’? I’d much rather hurt you!” She rushed at Sister with her hard little fists ready. But Sister was ready, too. She had her left out and her right up, protecting her jaw. When Tuffy threw a hard right, Sister ducked, then hit her square on the nose with a right cross. That quickly, Tuffy found herself sitting on the ground with a bloody noise. And almost that quickly, one of the recess teachers swooped down on Sister and Tuffy, pulled them into school, and sat them on the principal’s discipline bench. Sister’s mind was a blurry mix of pride that she had protected the baby bird and shock that she was sitting on the principal’s famous discipline bench. But she was even more shocked when she saw that Tuffy was crying. “What are you crying abut? I only hit you once,” Sister said. “I’m not crying about that,” said Tuffy. “Then what are you crying about?” Sister couldn’t help wondering what could make a cub as tough and mean as Tuffy cry. “If the principal tells my mom and dad about this,” said Tuffy, “I won’t be able to sit down for a–well, a long time.” Hmm, thought Sister. Here’s a cub who maybe gets hit a lot at home. Maybe that’s why she likes to hit other cubs at school. But Sister didn’t think about that for long. She was too worried about what was going to happen to her. Mr. Honeycomb, the principal, was very strict about fighting. The way it turned out, one of the other recess teachers had seen the whole thing and told Mr. Honeycomb that Sister was just trying to protect a baby bird. So Mr. Honeycomb let Sister off with a warning. As for Tuffy, the principal didn’t call in her parents. But she did lose a week of recess, and she had to visit the school psychologist twice a week for quite a while. tuffy BEANS tuffy BEANS tuffy BEANS Tuffy Tuffy Tuffy Tuffy MR HONEYCOMB PRINCIPAL1983 The Berenstain Bears’ TROUBLE WITH MONEY Stan & Jan BerenstainBrother Bear and Sister Bear knew quite a lot about the ways of Bear Country. They knew where the most beautiful wild flowers grew. They knew where the wild berries were the thickest and juiciest. They knew the best spot for watching sunrises and sunsets. They knew where all the best honey trees were. They even knew a very special place where you could almost always see a rainbow–from a secret space behand the waterfall. But there were somethings they didn’t know very much about. One of the things Brother and Sister Bear didn’t understand very well was money. Oh, they knew money was fun to have and even more fun to spend. And whenever they got some–as a present, or for doing a chore for a neighbor, or for no reason at all from Grizzly Gramps, who tended to spoil them, or from Papa Bear, who spoiled them even more–they ran as fast as their legs could carry them to the Bear Country Mall and spent it...they ran as fast as their legs could carry them to the Bear Country Mall and spent it...for honeycomb on a stick, a balsawood glider that did loops, a tiny little mouth organ that only played three notes. They never bought anything sensible, and they hardly ever saved. Once in a while Sister put money in her piggy bank. But she usually shook it out again before it had a chance to cool off her hot little hand. Brother didn’t even have a piggy bank. Mama was becoming concerned about the cub’s carefree, spendthrift was with money. “I think Brother and Siter should have a regular allowance,” she said one evening when she and Papa were working on the family books. “An allowance!” said Papa. “Yes, so they can learn to use money sensibly–to save, to plan ahead.” “Oh, no!” said Papa. “They’re much too young for that sort of thing. Let them enjoy themselves! They’ll have to worry about money soon enough when they’re grownups,” he added with a sigh. But it was Papa who first lost patience with their carelessness about money. It happened one day when the cubs had been at a mall spending some pennies a neighbor had given the for walking her dog. That was when they saw the new video game. It was called Astro Bear and it looked very exciting. “A video game! At the mall!” Papa shouted. “You must think I’m made of money!” The cubs thought no such thing, and when they pictured it, it seemed very strange. Mama could see that they were puzzled and she explained: “’Made of money’ is just a figure of speech, my dears.” That’s when the cubs realized that the situation was serious. Because Papa Bear only used figures of speech when he was upset. “You must think money grows on trees!” he shouted. Another figure of speech. “Video games, indeed!” he continued, becoming more and more upset. “There was no such thing as video games when I was a cub! Why, I didn’t know what money was until I was almost grown!” “Precisely, my dear,” interrupted Mama. “And that’s why this might be a very good time to start Brother and Sister on a regular allowance, so they can–“ “Absolutely not!” roared Papa, knocking over a chair. “They must earn their money! That’s what life is about–working earning money, saving fora rainy day.” The cubs knew how really serious the situation must be. Papa had used three figures of speech and knocked over a chair. They decided right then and there to mend their careless, spendthrift ways. It turned out that the cubs were very good at earning money once they set their minds to it. First they gathered wild flowers from those special places they knew about. Then they made them into bouquets and sold them by the side of the road. Business was very good. They gathered those fat, juicy wild berries and sold them door-to-door. Brother and Sister were turning out to be even better at making money than they had been at spending it. They organized guided tours of Bear Country’s finest beauty spots. They started a very successful pet-minding service. Brother had to borrow Mama’s sugar bowl to keep the extra money in. At first Papa was very impressed and pleased. But when the cubs started to sell maps showing the locations of all the best honey trees, Papa began to have doubts. “Those honey trees are a family secret,” he complained. “The cubs don’t seem to understand that some things are more important than money.” “They’ve gone from caring too little about money to caring too much. Why, just look at them! They’re turning into greedy, selfish, little misers right before our eyes!” he continued. He pointed at the cubs, who did, indeed, look like misers greedily counting their money. “Cubs,” said Papa in his sternest voice, “we’re going to have another talk.” But before he could start his speech, the cubs took all the money they had earned selling flowers and berries, doing chores, minding pets, and selling honey-tree maps and dumped it on his lab. “Here, Papa!” said Brother. “This is for you!” “That’s right,” said Sister. “We thought if we made some money for you, you wouldn’t have to worry about it so much. We hope it’s enough.” Papa was so startled, and so embarrassed at having been so wrong about them, that he was speechless. “That’s very generous!” said Mama. “It’s quite a sum of money and I know Papa appreciates it. But I have what may be a better idea. Papa does worry about money, of course. Most mamas and papas do from time to time. But what Papa is really worried about is you. He wants to be sure you understand that there's more to know about money than how to spend it.” “You know what I think?” said Papa. “I think we should start Brother and Sister on a regular allowance so they can learn to use money sensibly–to save, to plan ahead.” “An excellent idea!” said mama, smiling. “What about the money we earned?” asked the cubs. “You earned it, and it’s yours,” said Mama. “What I suggest is that we take it down to the mall and put it in the Bear Country Bank.” “Good suggestion,” said Papa. “That money can be your ‘nest egg.’” “Oh, dear!” cried the cubs together. “Another figure of speech!” “And a very appropriate one,” said Mama. She explained that the ‘nest egg’ is the one the farmer leaves in the nest to hatch another chick. “When you put money in the bank, it ‘hatches’ interest.” “Interest?” asked the cubs, puzzled. “The bank will pay you for leaving your money there. That’s called ‘interest.’” That day the Bear family went to the bank and opened an account for the cubs. It happened that the bank was right next to the video arcade. “Say, that looks interesting,” said Papa when he saw the Astro Bear game. “Let’s give it a try!” So the Bear family gave Astro Bear a try. Papa ended up with the lowest score. “You know,” he said, “we didn’t have video games when I was a cub. Will you give me another chance at this sometime?” “Any time at all!” said Brother and Sister, giving their papa a great big hug. BEAR GOODS GIFTS BEAR COUNTRY MALL ARCADE ASTRO BEAR WILD FLOWERS 10 cents bu PET MINDING 10 cent AN HOUR HONEY TREE MAP 15 cents ARCADE ARCADE ASTRO BEAR BANKBOOK BANKBOOK ASTRO BEARThe Berenstain Bears–1