1982The Berenstain BearsIN THE DarkStan and Jan Berenstain	“Brother Bear,” said Sister impatiently, “are you going to take all day to pick your books?”	Sister and Brother Bear at the Bear Country Library. Sister had already chosen her books and was waiting at the check-out desk. 	“Hold your horses,” said Brother. “I am looking for a good mystery.”	Sister Bear usually took out storybooks and books about nature–and sometimes books of poems. Brother liked those, too, but lately he’d become interested in mysteries–especially spooky ones.	“Hey, this one looks good,” he said finally. “Okay, let’s check out.”	“Hmmm,” said Sister, looking at the cover. It was called The Case of the Crying Cave. “It looks scary to me!”	“Say! This is really good!” said Brother later that evening when the Bear family had settled down for some reading. “Would you like me to read it to you?” he asked Sister. 	Sister was looking at a storybook about three kittens who were arguing about which was the prettiest–and it was a little boring.	“Or are you scared?” teased Brother. 	“Of course not,” said Sister. She left her book on the floor and climbed onto the bench to sit beside him.	The mystery began quietly. It told about some bear scouts who were on an overnight camp-out.	When the scouts discovered a dark, secret cave, Brother’s mystery began to get a little exciting. And when the cave began to cry and wail, it was anything but quiet!	“’Who-o-o-o-o! cried the deep, dark mysterious cave,’” read Brother with a lot of expression. “’ ’Who-o-o-o-o!’”	“Stop!” said Sister, putting her fingers in her ears. “That’s enough!” And she went back to her storybook. 	“Scaredy bear! Scaredy bear!” teased Brother. 	“And that’s quite enough of that,” added Papa Bear, looking up from his paper.	At the cubs’ bedtime Papa and Mama said good night, turned off the light, and left the cubs in the usual sleepy darkness.	Outside the tree house the bright, busy sounds of day had given to the soft, soothing sounds of night–the quiet conversation of frogs and toads, the soft cry of the owl, the sigh of the night wind. And if you listened very hard, you could almost hear the softest sound of all–the sound of lightning bugs switching their lights on and off, on and off.	But inside the tree house Sister Bear wasn’t even beginning to fall asleep. That night the dark didn’t seem the least bit quiet and sleepy. In fact, it seemed like the spooky darkness of a scary cave. And the friendly old chest of drawers and funny clothes tree that Papa had made didn’t seem so friendly and funny. They seemed more like cave creatures. 	So when brother decided to tease her a little more by making a wailing noise–a really sppoky wailing noise—it gave her quite a scare.     “Mama! Papa!” she cried. “Hurry! Come quick!”    And come quickly they did.     Papa rushed into the dark room and tripped over the clothes three.    Mama rushed in after Papa and tripped over him.    In the commotion Sister fell out of bed and landed on both of them.     Then Brother, who had started it all with his spooky wall, turned on the light. What a mess! Sister, still scared, was holding on to Papa. Papa was holding on to the toe he had stubbed. And Mama was looking for the night cap she had lost in the confusion. All three of them were pretty annoyed with Brother Bear.     It turned out to be a very long night in the Bear’s tree house. Papa and Mama tried to explain that there was nothing to be afraid of in the dark (except maybe running into a clothes tree and stubbing your toe)–but it didn’t do any good.    Sister absolutely refused to go to sleep with the light off.    And Brother positively insisted that he couldn’t fall asleep with the light on.    The next morning the Bear family was very sleepy-eyed.     “Boy,” said Brother, yawning. “I sure don’t want to go through another night like that!”    “Neither do I,” said Papa. “And I think I have an idea that might help.”    He took Sister’s hand. “Come with me,” he said.    “Where are we going?” she wanted to know.     “Up to the attic.”    “The attic? But it’s dark in the attic–even in the daytime.”    “I know,” said Papa. “But there’s something I want to show you.     Anyway, there’s nothing so special about the dark. It’s just part of nature, like the light. It’s your imagination that makes the dark seem spooky sometimes.”     “What’s imagination?” asked Sister.    “Imagination is what makes us think that chests of drawers and clothes trees are cave creatures.”    “I wish I didn’t have one,” said Sister.    “Don’t say that,” said Papa. “A lively imagination is one of the best things a cub can have. It’s imagination that lets us paint pictures, make up poems, invent inventions! The trick is to take charge of your imagination–and not let it take charge of you.”    When they got to the attic, Papa began to rummage through boxes, looking for something.    Sister tried to follow Papa’s advice and not let her imagination take charge.    And it worked–a spooky shape turned out to be the shadow of some old tools.    What looked like a giant was really some piled-up furniture.    “Here it is!” said Papa. “My old night light! The one I used when I was a cub and had a little trouble falling asleep in the dark!”     Sister couldn’t quite believe that her big, powerful papa was ever afraid of the dark.     “Oh, sure,” said Papa. “Most of us are at one time or another.”    “How about reading the rest of The Case of the Crying Cave?” Sister Bear asked Brother later that day.     “Are you sure you want me to?”    “Sure! I want to see how it turns out!” she insisted.    When it tured out that there was nothing very spooky about the terrible wailing noise (it was caused by wind blowing across an opening in the roof of the case–like the noise you make when you blow across the top of a bottle), Sister was a little disappointed.    And that night, when she and Brother were all settle down in the cozy glow of Papa’s old night light, she said so. “I was pretty disappointed by the way The Case of the Crying Cave ended.”    “Why?” asked Brother.     “Because,” she said, “I was hoping the wailing would be a really spooky, scary monster!” And she leaned down from her bunk over Brother’s and made a spooky, scary monster face at him.    “Cut that out!” cried Brother.    Then Sister went right to sleep.    But Brother lay awake for quite some time listening to the owl hoots and thinking that maybe he’d had enough mysteries for a while.         included in images:bear country libraryout, mysteries, cubs cornerTHE CASE OF THE CRYING CAVE WOOOOOBEAR COUNTRY GARDENSTHE CASE OF THE CRYINGTHE CASE OF THE CRYING CAVE WOOOOO“A mysterious cave!” said the bear scouts. “We should explore it!”But before the scouts could go into the cave a wailing sound came from the cave. WHOO-O-O-OIt was a strange sound and it frightened the scouts. “Help!” they cried.O-O-O-O-OWHO-O-O-O-O-O-O-O“The mystery is solved!” shouted Bear Scout Ted looking down from the hole in the top of the crying cave. The sounds are made by the wind. “I don’t understand!” said Bear scout Fred. “I’ll show you!” said Bear Scout Ted. “It’s like when you blow across the top of a bottle.” WHO-O-O-O-O-O-O1984The Berenstain Bears and MAMA’s NEW JOBSTAN and JAN BERENSTAIN    The Bear family, who lived in the big tree house down a sunny dirt road deep in Bear Country, was a very happy family. One of the reasons was that they were all very busy. Each member of the family had work to do. Papa Bear cut and split logs and made the wood into handsome furniture which he was proud to sell.     Mama Bear not only took care of her family, but she managed the whole tree house and tended the vegetable patch as well.     And, of course, Brother and Sister Bear had important jobs too: going to school and keeping up with their schoolwork.     The members of the Bear family had hobbies, too. Papa’s favorite hobbies were fishing and napping. He caught almost as many naps as he caught fish. Brother and Sister also had many hobbies. Brother was especially proud of his model airplanes. He liked to have Mama watch him fly his models, and sometimes she helped him fly his tether plane.    Sister was a super rope-jumper and her goal was to jump a thousand times without a miss. She liked to have Mama count for her because Sister could jump faster than she could count.     Since Mama was so busy with her household duties, she had time for just one hobby–but what a hobby! Mama was the best quilt maker in all of Bear Country! Her quilts were light and fluffy, but very warm. Her stitchery was fine and even. And her designs were original and exciting.     Sister Bear slept cozy and warm under a quilt that showed her jumping rope. Brother went to sleep under a handsome airplane design. And the big quilt on Mama and Papa’s bed showed the Bear family’s beautiful tree house.     Yes, the members of the Bear family had happy, busy, full lives. Especially Mama.     “My dear,” called Papa to Mama as she worked in the vegetable patch, “if it wouldn’t be too much trouble, would you put aside any fishing worms you might find?”    “Look, Mama!” called Brother. “I’m going to fly my new biplane!”    “I’m going to try for a thousand, Mama!” said Sister. “Would you please count for me?”    A little too full, thought Mama from time to time. She would have liked to have a little more time for her quilts. She had some lovely design ideas she wanted to try: a sunburst with clouds and bluebirds... a beautiful bouquet of flowers with butterflies... and a harvest scene with pumpkins and squash. But there just never seemed to be enough time.     Then one day something happed that changed the lives of the Bear family–something that changed Mama’s quilt-making from a hobby... into a business!    It might not have happened except for a coincidence, which is when two things happen at the same time.    The two things that happened were that Papa had a big sale of some very special furniture, and on the same day Mam hung out the family quilts to air.    Folks who came to buy Papa’s handsome furniture became excited about Mama’s beautiful quilts and wanted to buy them, too. Would-be buyers offered Mama quite a lot of money. They were very disappointed when she told them that the quilts were not for sale.     “With your talent, you really should be in business!” they said.     “Mama in business?” said Papa, patting her on the shoulder. “I don’t think so. One business-bear in the family is enough.”    But Mama wasn’t so sure. She was proud of her quilt-making skills and knowledge. After all, she was president of the Bear Country Quilting Club. Other quilt makers often came to her for help and advice.     That evening Papa and the cubs noticed that Mama was very quiet. She was quiet during supper. She was quiet during cleanup. She was quiet all evening. She was quiet because she was thinking–thinking about going into business.    The next day at lunch she made her big announcement.     “I’ve decided to open up a quilt shop.” she said, “and I’ve rented the empty store just down the road.”    “Not that overgrown wreck that’s been empty for years!” protested Papa.     “But you don’t want to be a business-bear,” said Sister. “you’re our mama!”    “That’s no reason why I shouldn’t open my own quilt shop. A lot of mama bears have jobs: Mrs. Grizzle is a sister; Mrs. Honeybear teaches school; Dr. Gert grizzly is your pediatrician...”    “Yeah,” said Brother, “but they’re not our mama!”    “There’s really nothing to worry about,” said Mama.     “Things aren’t going to be all that different.”    “Will you still count for me when I jump rope?” asked Sister.    “And will you still watch my fly my airplanes?” Brother wanted to know.     “And how about my fishing worms?” asked Papa. “Will you still put them aside for me when you tend the vegetable patch?”    “We’ll see about all that,” Mama said. “Meanwhile, I have to be at the shop. Some of my quilt club friends are helping me get it ready–and, oh yes,” she added as she turned to leave, “there’s a lot to do, so supper may be a little late tonight. Ta-ta!”    “Ta-ta!” said Papa. “Ta-ta!” said the cubs.    Supper wasn’t a little late that night. It was a lot late–and it was Papa and the cubs who prepared it. But they didn’t mind, because although Mama was very tired, she was very happy, too–happy and excited!         “Guess what!” said Sister as she served Mama her supper. “I reached a thousand jumps today! Brother counted for me!”    “And Sis helped me fly my tether plane! We had a great flight!” added Brother.    “And I weeded the vegetable patch,” said Papa, bringing a tub of warm water to Mama for her tired feet.     “Well,” said Mama. “I’m very proud of you all.”    Papa and the cubs were very proud of her, too. There was no way to tell whether the quilt shop would be a success, but she certainly was giving it a good try.    After about two weeks of hard work, the Bear Country Quilt Shop had its grand opening. It was a very exciting event! Not only did Mama sell her own quilts, but she sold quilts for all the members of her club as well.     It was a great success. Why, even Mayor and Mrs. Honeypot came in their long lavender limousine. They bought one quilt and ordered three more.    “I know what!” said Mama as she closed ups shop that night. “Let’s stop off at the Burger Bear for supper! My treat!”    The Bear family celebrated with a delicious Burger Bear supper. Papa and the cubs were very proud of their business-bear wife and mama.    The extra money came in handy too!    Country QuiltsQUILTS for SALEHOME SWEET TREEFURNITURE SALEFURNITURE SALEGRAND OPENINGTHE BEAR COUNTRYQUILT SHOPGRAND OPENINGTHE BEAR COUNTRYQUILT SHOPTHE BURGER BEAR1987The Berenstain Bears and the BAD HABITStan and Jan Berenstain    Sister Bear, who lived with her mama, papa, and brother in the big tree house down a sunny dirt road deep in Bear Country, had been going to school for a quite a while.    First there had been nursery school, which was pure fun–playing with dolls and blocks, rolling clay snakes, and scribbling with crayons.    Next had come kindergarten. That was fun too. There were marching games and rhythm band. She also learned a lot of numbers in kindergarten–and most of the alphabet.Now Sister was in first grade. Regular school was different. It was still fun and she liked Teacher Jane very much, but it wasn’t all fun. There was quite a lot of work–spelling, number problems, all kinds of things.    In regular school you have to concentrate–and sometimes when you concentrate, you form little nervous habits. That’s what happened to some of the cubs in Teacher Jane’s class. Lizzy twirled her fur. Twirl, twirl, twirl. Freddy scratched his head. Scratch, scratch, scratch. Norman sucked his thumb. Suck, suck, suck. And Sister nibbled her nails. Nibble, nibble, nibble, nibble.    Before she knew it, she had nibbled them down to nubbins. In fact, she nibbled them down so far that some of her fingers were getting sore.     “Oh, dear!” said Mama Bear to Sister when the cubs got home from school one day. “You’ve nibbled yur nails down to nubbins. In fact, you’ve nibbled them cleaned off. How did it happen?”    “I’m not exactly sure, Mama,” Sister said. “But some of them are getting sore.”    “Hmm,” said Mama. “Well, here’s what we’ll do. We’ll put a little medicine on the sore ones and bits of adhesive tape on all of them. That will remind you not to nibble and will give them a change to grow back”    The bits of tape helped Sister remember not to nibble, but they also got in the way when she tried to do certain things. It’s very hard to hole a pencil with tape all over your fingertips, or tune the TV, or scratch when you have an itch.    But worst of all, the bits of tape told the whole orld that Sister Bear was a nail biter.    The next morning, when sister lined up for school, Lizzy Bruin and some others began pointing and teasing. “Sister nibbles her nails! Sister nibbles her nails!” It didn’t take Sister long to decide to pull off those bits of tape!    And without the tape, she forgot to remember not to nibble. She forgot during school. She forgot on the bus. She even forgot as she and Brother climbed off the bus.    “You’re going to have to cut that out, Sis,” said Brother, “or you’ll get to e a regular full-time nail biter.”    “I’m afraid your brother’s right,” said Mama, who was organizing the wheelbarrow for some garden work. “I don’t mean to ng, but nail biting is a very difficult habit to break.”     “Habit?” asked Sister, making fists so that her nubby, nibbled-off nails wouldn’t show. “What’s a habit?”    “That’s a good question,” said Mama. “Come along while I plant these tulip bulbs Grizzly Gran sent over and we’ll talk about it.     “A habit,” Mama said as she pushed the wheelbarrow along the well-worn path, “is something you do so often you don’t even have to think about it. Habits are a very important part of our lives. And most of them are good–like brushing your teeh and combing your fur when you get up in the morning, and looking both ways before you cross a road. But some habits aren’t so good.”    “Like nail biting?” asked Sister.    “You would like to have your nice nails grow back, wouldn’t you?” as Mama’s answer.    “Oh, yes!” said Sister. “But I keep forgetting! Why is it so hard to remember?”    “Well,” said Mama, “it’s sort of like this path. I’ve wheeled this barrow over it so many times that it’s worn a deep rut right down the middle. And it keeps getting deeper every time I use it. Why, it’s so deep now that I can’t get out of it without a little help.”    “That’s the way it is with a bad habbit–the more you use it, the arder it is to get out of it. Here, this is where I want to plant the bulbs.”    “What about my nail-biting habit?” asked Sister as she helped Mama out of the deep rut. “How am I going to get out of it?”    “You just need alittle help, that’s all,” said Mama. “Let’s lant Gran’s tulips while I think about it. And later I’ll talk to your papa. He may have some ideas.”    “”    “”        “”    “”        “”    “”        “”    “”        “”    “”                        11111222233334444Aa AaBb BbCcCcHATBATCATBALLTALLWALLUP/DOWNBIG/SMALLOUT/IN3+4=73+4=72+5=72+5=7SCHOOL BUS–1988The Berenstain Bears and the BAD DREAMStan and Berenstain        Brother Bear was just crazy about Space Grizzlies. Space Grizzlies were little toy action figures that you could collect.     Sister Bear didn’t like them much. She thought they were dumb (and a little scary).    Mama Bear didn’t mind them except when Brother brought them to the table or left them on the stairs.    Papa Bear didn’t care about them one way or the other.     But Brother cared about them a lot. He cared about them so much that he did chores for neighbors to make extra money so he coul buy more.     He had quite a few. But the store had more. A lot more. He was saving up to buy Sleezo’s Cloud Castle. Sleezo was the evilest of all the Space Grizzlies, and the wicked-looking Cloud Castle was where he planned all his evil deeds.     When Brother had saved enough money, he went along on a shopping trip to the Bear Country Mall and made his purchase. The Cloud Castle came in a big box, and he could hardly wait to get home to play with it. But as he was getting into the car, he saw something that was even more exciting than the Cloud Castle.    It was a movie poster. It said: COMING SOON. SPACE GRIZZLIES–THE MOVIE!    “A Space Grizzlies movie!” he cried. “It looks great! I can’t wait to see it!”     “I can,” said Sister. “Looks scary to me.”     “May I see it when it comes, Mama?” asked Brother. “May I, please?”    “Hmm,” said Mama. “We’ll see when the time comes.”    When they got home, Brother opened his new Cloud Castle, got out all his Space Grizzlies, and was all set to play the biggest Space Grizzly game ever. But... he had nobody to play with. Nobody, that is, except Sister.    “Want to play Space Grizzlies, Sis?” he asked.    “No way,” she said.    “Aw, come on,” he said. “I’ll play any game you want if you’ll play Space Grizzlies with me.”    “Any three games,” she said driving a hard bargain.     “Which three?” he asked warily.     “Papa dolls, jacks, and beanbags,” she answered.    “Papa dolls, jacks, and beanbags!” he protested. “Give me a break!”    “Take it or leave it,” she said.He took it. And after some lively sessions of paper dolls, jacks, and beanbags, it was time for...–SPACE GRIZZLIES!    “I am Sleezo, evil king of the universe! roared Brother. “Calling all spaceships! Seek and destory the planet Magongo, home of my sworn enemy, Heero the Magnificent!”    “Oh, no, you don’t!” Sister shouted back. “I am Heero the Magnificent! One touch from my sleep wand and your evil ways will be ended!”    They played until Mama called them for dinner. “Brother,” said Mama, “how many times must I tell you–no Space Grizzlers at the table!”    Papa was taking a peek at the Bear Country News. “Brother,” he said, “that movie of yours starts tomorrow.”    “May I see it, Mama, please?” asked Brother.    “I don’t know why not,” she said. “Why haven’t been to the movies in a while.”    “I know why not,” said Sister. “Because it’s scary.”     “That’s no problem,” said Papa. “There are lots of movies to choose from.”    He was right. The Bear Country Theater was really four movie houses in one, and there were usually four different movies playing.     “This looks good,” said Mama. “The Magic Toeshoes. It’s a musical about a ballerina.”    So when they got to the movies to the next evening. Mama, Papa, and Sister got in line for The Magic Toeshoes, and Brother joined a bunch of his friends in line for Space Grizzlies.    The Magic Toeshoes told the story of a young bear who wanted to e a ballerina. But every time she tried to dance on her toes she wiggled and wobbled. The old ballet master took pity on her and gave her a pair of magic toeshoes which cured her wiggles and wobbles.            But on the night of the big ballet, she left her magic toeshoes on the bus! Without them she was all wiggles and wobbles again. That’s when the ballet master told her they weren’t magic at all! They were just ordinary toeshoes. The wobbly ballerina got her confidence back and danced beautifully ever after.    The Space Grizzly movie was about Space Grizzlies, of course: great monstrous big-screen ones who zapped and zoomed through space until that final intergalactic shootout. It was very exciting and not a little scary.    It was dark when the Bear family got home, so it was off to be for the cubs. It was already late for Sister, and she went right to sleep. But Brother was so excited by the movie that he lay awake for quite a while. He was just about to doze off when Sister woke up screaming.     “Hel-lp!” she screamed. “They’re after me!”    “Who’s after you? asked Brother.    “Space Grizzlies!” she wailed. “Thousands of them!”    “Calm down, sillyhead. It’s only a dream,” he said.    But Sister leaped out of bed and ran into Mama and Papa’s room.     The little silly, Brother thought. Imagine–being afraid of a dopey dream. Then he yawned, turned over, and went to sleep.    Mama and Papa tried to calm Sister. They took her into their bed and hugged her.    “Tell us about your dream,” said Mama.     “Dream?” Sister said.    “Yes,” said Papa. “You must have had a nightmare. That’s the word for a bad dream.”    “But it was so real!” she said, calming down a bit.     “That’s how it is with dreams,” he said. “it’s as if they’re really happening, but they’re not–they’re just in your mind.”    “Can yu tell us your ream? asked Mama.     “It was awful!” Sister said. “I was a ballet star dancing on my toes, and then the stage turned into a giant beanbag board and the Space Grizzlies came out of the beanbag holes and chased me and I fell down one of the holes.”    “I kept falling and falling and then I woke up. It was awful!” she sailed again, and buried her face in Mama’s nightgown.    “I’m sure it was, sweetie,” said Mama. “But it was also very interesting.”    “Interesting?” Sister said in a puzzled voice.    “Oh yes,” said Mama. “you see, even though you go to sleep, your mind keeps right on thinking. But it doesn’t think in a sensible way. It takes all the things you were thinking or were nervous about during the day and puts them together all jumbled like a mixed-up zigsaw puzzle.”    “You mean–like the ballet dancer from the movie?” said Sister.    “Sure,” said Papa.    “And the beanbag board from playing beanbags with Brother–” she added.    “And the Space Grizzlies–” began Mama.    “Where from playing Space Grizzlies with Brother and from seeing the movie poster!” Sister said.    “Exactly,” said Papa.     “Say,” she said. “That is interesting!”    That’s when they heard Brother.    “Hel-l-lp!” he screamed. “They’re after me! They’re after me!” Then he raced into the room, jumped into the bed, and hid his face in Papa’s pajamas.    “Calm down, son” said Papa. “It was just a bad dream.”    “A nightmare,” added Sister. “That’s another word for bad dream.”    “Can you tell us about it?” asked Mama.    “Well, I was eating dinner and the food turned into Space Grizzlies–gigantic ones, and they chased me and I turned into a paper doll and my cloes were flying off! It was awful!”    “You’re awake now, dear,” said Mama. “Everything’s going to be all right.”    “But Mama,” he said, “it was so real.”    “Of course it was,” said Sister. “That’s the way dreams are. Let me explain it to you.”    And she did.         Some dreams make cubs laugh. Some dreams make them cry. It’s interesting to think about what they dream and why.SPACE GRIZZLIESHEADQUARTERSTOYSBEAR COUNTRYBARN THEATERCOMING SOONSPACE GRIZZLIESTHE MOVIESPACE DOORBUT STOP